---
layout: post
title:  "Text Based Adventure Game Dev Diary: Post Mortem"
date:   2018-11-16
author: Lewis Bond
categories: [Post, Developer Diary, Low Level Programming Dev Diary, Text Based Adventure Dev Diary]
img: /TxBsdAdvenBlog/coverPage.png
thumb: /TxBsdAdvenBlog/coverPage.png
published: true
---

<!--more-->
# Text Based Adventure Game

## Pros
<ul>
<li>The scene manager worked well was my code for the game was separate from my menu so it was much cleaner.</li>
<li>Reading in from txt files worked well and how I stored the room information was highlighted by my lecturer.</li>
<li>The changing between rooms worked well as instead of having each room as a separate game object. I instanciated 1 and updated its values as the player explored the ship.</li>
<li>The astectics were also highlighted as different and very cool. I was going for a kind of a 80's computer terminal vibe that is seen in films like alien to go along with my abandoned spaceship theme. I then settled on a fallout design because it fitted perfectly with what I wanted and I also love the fallout games so it was kind of a homage to them.</li>
</ul>

## Cons
<ul>
<li>Some of my naming of variables was a bit unclear so people reading for the first time my not be sure what each one does.</li>
<li>I had a bit of code which used multiple if statements instead of else if which isn't good for optimisation.</li>
<li>My classes knew about each other which they shouldn't so I will change that from now on.</li>
<li>Even though it was a text based adventure game, the lack of images meant there was a lot of dead space on the screen but I will ultilise it next time.</li>
</ul>

## Improvements
<ul>
<li>I would add images to the game just to make it more pleasing and improve the feel of it. Maybe just a little pip boy character at the side if I wanted to go down the full fallout route.</li>
<li>I would change some of my reading in from files as even though it was good it could of been optimised a lot more.</li>
<li>I would improve my map so it blended in more with the background image.</li>
</ul>

## What I Learned
<ul>
<li>I realised how much fun coding a text based adventure is even though it can be quite fidily. If you let your imagination do a lot of the work, with a text based adventure it is very easy to code what you want.</li>
<li>It consilidated my understandting of pointers and how to use them as well as introducing me to component based way of programming as I was constatly discussing with my lecturer how he would write it out.</li>
</ul>

[PREVIOUS BLOG POST](https://lbondi7.github.io/post/developer%20diary/low%20level%20programming%20dev%20diary/text%20based%20adventure%20dev%20diary/llp-dd-TBAG-5){: .btn}
